# 2022-08-01 GraphBLAS C API Committee

Attendees:
  - Jim Kitchen
  - Erik Welch
  - Manoj Kumar

## Type Introspection

Manoj: Query type -  Query whether the base type is int or float?  Or even the word size of int or float.

Manoj: Serialization - Whatever we ingest and develop in GrapBLAS should be inherited by LAGraph, lest the specifications become contradictory.

Jim: Let's have 3 new methods in the spec

  - Query the type of an object
  - Query the size of a type
  - Query the name of a type

Jim: Two methods in the spec would change

 - New types are created with both a size and a name (unique string)
 - When deserializing, there is no longer a need to pass the type explicitly. Instead, when deserializing a user-defined type, the name is used to check if the user-defined type has been registered. If not registered, an error is raised.

**When should we invite Tim D to discuss?** Not until we have an actual proposal. Let's target next week to agree on a written proposal.

Erik will try to put together a strawman proposal for next week (if he has time).

Erik: Should there be a limitation on type names? Tim D wants to limit them to C identifiers. I want to leave it as any arbitrary string.

Erik: Should we limit the type name to a max length or any null-terminated string?

Jim: What about a method to compare two types for equality? Should we just ask their names and compare strings, or should we make a new method to compare two types?

Erik: And do you want a way to get a type from the name?

## Action Items

- [ ] [*Manoj*] Read Tim D proposal
- [ ] [*Manoj*] Talk with Tim D and Roi about graph databases
- [ ] [*Erik*] Write a strawman proposal for type query
