# 2022-07-25 GraphBLAS C API Committee

Attendees:
  - Jim Kitchen
  - Erik Welch
  - Tim Mattson
  - Manoj Kumar

## Updates

- Scott M. will update the math spec with all the details from the C API spec (_Let's make the work of the API specs easier!_)
- There is a request for unknown-sized Matrix in GraphBLAS, especially to handle streaming in nodes to a dynamic graph
- Math spec will likely split into two fronts:
    - Detailed spec matching current
    - New concepts needed -- enhancement proposals, formalizing terminology, etc

## Type Introspection

Discussion about Tim Davis's request/proposal

- https://github.com/GraphBLAS/GraphBLAS_proposals/tree/main/C/P0001_named_types_and_ops
- https://github.com/GraphBLAS/graphblas-api-c/issues/32

Specific components of the request

1. Query the type of an object (Matrix, Vector, Scalar)
2. Serialization needs
3. JIT to speed up the type and/or make it work on GPUs
4. Type comparison

Manoj: Is there a difference between a user API and a library (i.e. core vs extended functionality)
Erik: Not sure where the split would be. Is the distinction worth it?
Tim M: OpenMP sees this same dynamic. Was 45 pages, now 600 pages.
Erik: Okay with throwing the type query into some sort of "advanced" usage documentation
Tim M: Bringing up Jose's idea that opacity is good and type introspection breaks opacity

**Do we all agree that asking a Matrix it's type is necessary?**
Yes

**What are thoughts about using a string as the unique identifier of a type?**
Erik: What kind of string? Tim wants it to be a valid C identifier, but I want it to be any string (maybe up to some max length)



## Action Items

- [x] [_Jim_] Create a calendar invite for everyone. The Zoom link alone isn't sufficient.


## Next Agenda

- Continue discussing type introspection. Get a strawman proposal together to discuss with Tim D.
