# 2023-03-06 GraphBLAS C API Committee

Attendees:
  - Tim Mattson
  - Manoj Kumar
  - Jim Kitchen
  - Erik Welch

## New Time

- Wednesdays @ 11am Eastern seems to be the best time for everyone to meet
- Manoj has a conflict once a month -- we might need to cancel or have an async meeting that week
- Jim will update the invite

## Get/Set proposal

- Need to create a schedule for when each step needs to be complete if we want to target 2.1 spec for HPEC
  - This is top agenda item for next meeting
- There is concern about the enum + string approach being too restrictive for our 3.0 goals
  - Choosing something like JSON or another commonly used approach for nested/semi-structured data might feel alien to C programmers,
    but generally makes sense for higher-level wrapper languages (Python, Julia, etc)
  - We should make sure we don't do something in 2.1 that we immediately deprecate in 3.0
  - One idea is to choose a delimiter character to represent nesting (ex. some-key/next-level/foobar) which keeps the key/value store flat
    while providing the illusion of nested depth by convention  
